Add Swoole and Laravel Octane doc pages (#2385)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/guides/laravel/deploy/octane.md

---
title: "Laravel Octane"
sidebarTitle: "Octane"
weight: -90

> description: Improve Laravel apps performance serving them with Laravel Octane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Improve Laravel apps' performance serving them with Laravel Octane.
```

---
title: "Laravel Octane"
sidebarTitle: "Octane"
weight: -90
description: Improve Laravel apps performance serving them with Laravel Octane.
---

[Laravel Octane](https://laravel.com/docs/octane) aim at improving Laravel applications performance by serving them using high-powered application servers, including [Swoole](https://github.com/swoole/swoole-src), [Open Swoole](https://openswoole.com/), and [RoadRunner](https://roadrunner.dev/).

> {{< note theme="warning" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}
```

I'd reserve warnings for situations where data might be lost or some other bad consequence could come from an action.

Laravel Octane requires PHP 8.0+.
{{< /note >}}

> ## Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install
```

> Swoole and Open Swoole are PHP extensions that need to be installed during build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the PHP extension for Swoole or Open Swoole during the build.
```

> A [script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/main/src/install_swoole.sh) is available to ease the installation of Swoole. It requires 2 parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take advantage of an [installation script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/main/src/install_swoole.sh).
You need to pass 2 parameters:

```

>  - the Swoole project to use: `openswoole` or `swoole`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Which Swoole project to use: `openswoole` or `swoole`
```

>  - the version of the library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Which version to install
```

```yaml {location=".platform.app.yaml"}
hooks:
    build: |
        set -e
        ...
        sh <( curl -s 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platformsh/snippets/main/src/install_swoole.sh') openswoole 4.11.1
```

> ## Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use
```

Require Laravel Octane using Composer.

``` bash
composer require laravel/octane
```

> Make sure to clear the cache on relevant Platform.sh environments afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then make sure to clear the cache on all relevant Platform.sh environments.
```

``` bash
php artisan optimize:clear
```

> The default web server should be overriden by a [custom start command](../../../languages/php/_index.md#alternate-start-commands). Octane should listen the TCP socket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Override the default web server with a [custom start command](../../../languages/php/_index.md#alternate-start-commands).
Octane should listen on a TCP socket.
```
